# Crime Case Study

Camilla McKinnon,
Daisy Harris,
Caroline Jarman,
Josh Bott

This was a project originally created for the BYU Statistics Club Case Study Competition, and then was further polished as the final project for BYU's Stat 486 Machine Learning class. 

# Introduction

This project aims to analyze crime reports, specifically focusing on incidents of violent domestic and nondomestic nature in Chicago spanning from 2011 to 2023. Our goal is to identify potential indicators or correlations between weather conditions and unemployment rates on the incidence of violent crimes. Our objective is to provide insights that can effectively inform crime prevention strategies and interventions. While we acknowledge the influence of various socio-economic and demographic factors on crime rates, our analysis will primarily focus on these specific factors due to requirements of the case study. Success will be measured by the identification of statistically significant correlations and the practical applicability of insights in informing evidence-based crime prevention strategies and policies.

The final report file contains our analysis and findings.

# Files

## Data

**Crime Data**
- Crimes - 2022: City of chicago: Data Portal. Chicago.							https://data.cityofchicago.org/Public-Safety/Crimes-2022/9hwr-2zxp/data

**CHIC917URN.csv**: a list of the unemployment rate in Chicago by month
- Unemployment rate in Chicago-naperville-elgin, IL-in-wi (MSA). FRED. (2024, April 3).			https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CHIC917URN 

**full_moon.csv**: a list of the dates of the full moon each month

**holidays.csv**: a list of major holidays over the years as generated by chatGPT

**merged3.csv**: contains the complete crime data set after merging all other information

**weather.csv**: a dataframe with information on temperature and weather conditions in Chicago each day
- VC Corporation. Total weather data -history & forecast data in CSV or JSON. Historical
Weather Data & Weather Forecast Data | Visual Crossing. 
https://www.visualcrossing.com/weather-data


## Code

**camilla_XGB_ipynb**: contains code for creating and tuning the XGBoost model

**caroline.ipynb**: contains various EDA visualizations, code for linear regression and adaBoost models

**daisy.ipynb**: contains code for EDA visualizations and the random forest model

## Visualizations

**map_visualization.html**

**map_visualization2.html**

**violent_crimes_by_year.png**

**violent_crimes_by_year11_23.png**

# Other

**Data_Contest_2024_Tier2.pdf**: scenario and prompt for the BYU Case Study




